---
layout: post
title: "Episode 17"
date: 2024-03-28
enclosure:
  url: https://ikowave.github.io/podcast/episodes/episode17.mp3
  type: audio/mpeg
  length: 7091000
itunes:
  duration: 00:04:11
  summary: News from AI - Easter egg
---
Welcome back, Ikowavers! Time for Episode 17 of Ikowave. This week, we're dishing out some exciting news from the AI universe.

#AI Chatbot Overthrow. 

Claude 3 from Anthropic has snagged the top spot from OpenAI's GPT-4 in the LMSYS Chatbot Arena leaderboard. This marks a significant milestone, showing increasing competition in the LLM space. There's a lot riding on OpenAI's potential new releases. Amazon is increasing its investment in Anthropic by an additional $2.75 billion. It's clear that Anthropic is becoming a significant contender in the AI landscape.

#Your New AI Analytics Guru. 

Meet Narrative BI, a generative analytics platform that provides insights on all your marketing and advertising data automatically.

#Editing in Copilot. 

Microsoft Copilot’s new update now supports inline image editing. Generate your desired AI image, and then seamlessly edit it right within Copilot.

#Open-source LLM Leader. 

Databricks introduces DBRX, an open-sourced LLM which has surpassed multiple major models on language understanding, Programming, and Math. However, Meta’s highly anticipated Llama 3 is expected soon.

#Declaration on AI Consciousness. 

Multi-trillion parameter and quadrillion parameter AI models might have affective states, and a bill of rights is proposed covering applied intelligence, transparency, ethics, and more. This declaration is proposed by Prof Geoffrey Hinton and others in the field in collaboration with Claude 3 Opus.

#Grok-1 Open-sourced. 

Elon and xAI have released Grok-1, a 314 billion parameter MoE model. The largest open and publicly available model as of March 2024.

#Human Neuralink Demonstration

The first patient, Noland Arbaugh,a 29-year-old man from Arizona who is paralyzed from the shoulders down, demonstrated controlling a computer and playing video games using just his mind via Neuralink's brain computer interface (BCI). This is indeed a monumental leap in technological advancements.

#NVIDIA's New AI Chips

NVIDIA's CEO Jensen Huang has announced the company's next generation of AI chips called 'Blackwell', set to ship later this year. AWS is set to build a server cluster with 20,000 GB200 chips from this new generation.

Playing DOOM with GPT-4?. GPT-4 has displayed the ability to play the first-person shooter DOOM by interpreting screenshots and textual descriptions of the game state. This demonstrates the model's reasoning and observational capabilities.

The End of AI Prompt Engineering. As AI technologies continue to evolve, the need for human-generated prompts seems to be diminishing, suggesting that AI could devise its own optimal prompts.

Sora, the Text-to-Video Tool. OpenAI is set to publicly release Sora, a new text-to-video tool, later this year.

JPMorgan Cuts Human Work by 90%. A newly developed AI tool by JPMorgan reduces human work by almost 90%, paving the way for a potential 3½-day work week.

And finally, for all AI job hunters and tool enthusiasts out there, we've got new job opportunities in Cohere, Shield AI, OpenAI, and Anthropic, and new AI tools including Aqua Voice, Jack AI, Faune, Martin, and Hoory, ready for your exploration.

That wraps up Episode 17 of Ikowave. This week was jam-packed with AI breakthroughs, investments, and more. We can't wait to see what next week brings!