---
layout: post
title: "Episode 14"
date: 2024-02-27
enclosure:
  url: https://ikowave.github.io/podcast/episodes/episode14.mp3
  type: audio/mpeg
  length: 7091000
itunes:
  duration: 00:04:00
  summary: News from AI World last week of Feb 2024
---
Welcome back to the Ikowave podcast, where we dive deep into the world of AI and its advancements. I'm your host, and today, we're bringing you the updates and insights from the AI world that have been making waves this past month.

Our first story comes from The Memo on 19th February 2024, where Gergely Orosz was announced the winner of the Who Moved My Cheese? AI Awards! for February 2024. As a software engineer, Gergely voiced concerns about the future where AI tools outperform human developers, a sentiment that was surprisingly shared by Ray Kurzweil, who once said that it took him a while to grapple with the dramatic implications AI holds for the future.

In other news, OpenAI Sora, a new AI model that can understand and simulate the physical world in motion, was revealed. It responds to text prompts by conceptualizing 1-minute HD video from scratch, demonstrating a revolutionary leap in AI's ability to interact with the physical world. Hollywood will never be the same after this one.

Dr Jim Fan from NVIDIA provided an excellent explanation of this sample video output by OpenAI:

Imagine the following prompt: "Photorealistic closeup video of two pirate ships battling each other as they sail inside a cup of coffee"

The simulator instantiates two exquisite 3D assets: pirate ships with different decorations. Sora has to solve text-to-3D implicitly in its latent space.

The 3D objects are consistently animated as they sail and avoid each other’s paths.

Fluid dynamics of the coffee, even the foams that form around the ships. Fluid simulation is an entire sub-field of computer graphics, which traditionally requires very complex algorithms and equations.

Photorealism, almost like rendering with raytracing.

The simulator takes into account the small size of the cup compared to oceans, and applies tilt-shift photography to give a "minuscule" vibe.

The semantics of the scene does not exist in the real world, but the engine still implements the correct physical rules that we expect. (16/Feb/2024)

However, change isn't always met with open arms. Google faced backlash for its Gemini model's attempts to diversify its image outputs of people, which led to a halt in Gemini's image generation abilities. This incident sparked broader discussions over bias and safety in AI models, highlighting the growing importance of ethical balance in AI development.

On a brighter note, AI's potential in music generation is experiencing a major breakthrough with the release of Suno v3. This new genre of 'hyperpop' was created by feeding the AI a unique prompt, showcasing AI's ability to expand the horizons of music creation.

AI is also playing a crucial role in our fight against climate change. Scientists at Princeton used AI to solve a critical instability challenge in fusion reactors, bringing us a step closer to harnessing clean, abundant fusion energy.

Lastly, in the job market, research from Upwork revealed a decrease in writing and customer service jobs, possibly due to the rise in AI capabilities, like ChatGPT's output. However, the irony lies in the fact that Upwork's own contractors contributed to the development of ChatGPT, arguably contributing to their job displacement.

That wraps up this episode of Ikowave. As we continue to explore the uncharted waters of AI, it's clear that the journey ahead is both exciting and challenging. Until next time, stay curious and keep exploring.

Credits: 

The Memo From Life Architect
https://lifearchitect.substack.com/p/the-memo-19feb2024?utm_source=post-email-title&publication_id=998306&post_id=141492403&utm_campaign=email-post-title&isFreemail=true&r=2ito9t&open=false&utm_medium=email
https://lifearchitect.substack.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Flifearchitect.substack.com%2Fp%2Fthe-memo-27feb2024%3Futm_source%3Dpost-email-title%26publication_id%3D998306%26post_id%3D141876011%26utm_campaign%3Demail-post-title%26isFreemail%3Dtrue%26r%3D2ito9t%26open%3Dfalse%26utm_medium%3Demail

The Rundown AI
https://tech.therundown.ai/subscribe?utm_source=www.therundown.ai&utm_medium=newsletter&utm_campaign=google-s-ai-ethics-crisis
